Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.Full profile '">The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer.A former DEA agent Wednesdayto money laundering, obstruction of justice and extortion for his actions during the two years he spent investigating the online drug marketplace Silk Road as an undercover agent.Carl Mark Force IV, 46, servedon the Baltimore Silk Road Task Force from 2012 to 2014 as the lead agent in charge of investigating and communicating with Ross Ulbricht, the Silk Road mastermind who was . According to his plea agreement, Force used his position as a federal investigator to extort Bitcoin from Ulbricht using his official undercover moniker "Nob," as well as two other unsanctioned personas.While investigating the Silk Road, former DEA Agent Carl Force crossed the line from enforcing the law to breaking it, Assistant Attorney General Caldwell said in a statement. Seduced by the perceived anonymity of virtual currency and the dark web, Force used invented online personas and encrypted messaging to fraudulently obtain bitcoin worth hundreds of thousands of dollars from the government and investigative targets alike."Over the course of a , Forceadmits to a longlist of corrupt actions during his time investigating the Silk Road. Acting as"Nob," Force offered Ulbricht fake driver's licenses and inside information about the Silk Road investigation in exchange for 925 Bitcoin (worth approximately $100,000). Instead of turning that money over to the government, Force transferred it to a personal bank account and attempted to hide the fact that he had ever received the money from Ulbricht. Using a second, unsanctioned persona"French Maid," Force says he received another $100,000 in Bitcoin from Ulbricht in exchange for information about the Silk Road investigation.Additionally, Force admits to investing $110,000 in Bitcoin in CoinMKT while serving as the digital exchange's Chief Compliance Officer without DEA approval. In February 2014, Force was alerted to potential fraud in an account holding$337,000. Force told CoinMKT to freeze the account and then transferred $300,000 to his personal bank account, altering reports to show that only the remaining $37,000 had been seizedfrom the account.That same month, Force used his supervisor's seal to issue  after his account was frozen. When that didn't work, Force covered his tracks and then tried to get Venmo investigated and shut down.Finally--if Force's actions don't already sound like the makings of a movie--Force admitted to enteringa $240,000 contract with 20th Century  Film Studios for a film about the Silk Road's investigation, without DEA approval."During the time that I devised and carried out this fraud and money laundering scheme, I was a Special Agent with the DEA and a member of the Baltimore Silk Road Task Force -- which was actively engaged in investigating Silk Road, its vendors and buyers, and [Ulbricht]," Force wrote in his plea deal. "As a DEA Special Agent, I held a position of public trust and I abused that position. I further agree that my activities obstructed, influenced, and impeded the Baltimore Grand Jury related to its Silk Road investigation as well as its resulting case in the District of Maryland against [Ulbricht]."