
    
  
  Two of tech's biggest venture capital funds,Andreessen
  Horowitz and Union Square Ventures, are investing $1 million into
  OpenBazaar, a wildly ambitious bitcoin startup that aims to
  create a decentralised, police-proof online marketplace where
  users can sell literally anything using bitcoin.

  However, the company is at pains to make clear that it isn't
  trying to create a "Silk Road 3.0." Lead developer Brian Hoffman
  spoke emphatically against "misuse" of the platform when I talked
  to him, instead arguing it has the potential to revolutionise
  online commerce  a next-generation Etsy with no transaction fees
  whatsoever. Early press focused on its potential criminal
  implications, but Hoffman says he is determined to "change the
  conversation," and hopes the high-profile investment will help to
  "legitimise development of the protocol."

  But with an uncensorable structure, Hoffman concedes, comes the
  risk that it could also be used to

  To understand how OpenBazaar works and where it came from, you
  need to understand a little about digital currency bitcoin.
  Unlike other currencies, it has no central authority regulating
  or controlling it  it is totally decentralised. Users of bitcoin
  instead contribute their processing power to the upkeep of the
  network, and a public ledger (required to avoid double-spending)
  of all transactions is shared between users on the network.

    
  
  Bitcoin transactions can't be blocked by any authority, offering
  users a way to buy absolutely anything  provided they can find a
  seller. In the early days, the digital currency rose to
  prominence in part because it helped facilitate an unprecedented
  online drug trade, principally through online contraband market
  Silk Road.

  But while bitcoin is decentralised, and impossible to stop
  without shutting down every computer on the network, Silk Road
  the marketplace. Although it obscured its
  location from authorities through use of anonymising software
  Tor, it was ultimately tracked down, shut down, and its creator 
  .

  OpenBazaar takes bitcoin's decentralisation to its logical
  conclusion  by decentralising the market itself. The project has
  no central server to be seized; instead, it is distributed
  between every member of the network, all jointly responsible for
  its upkeep.

  On eBay, there's a central authority that moderates the network,
  monitors for illicit items on sale, arbitrates disputes, and
  holds funds in escrow. On OpenBazaar, however, there is none of
  this. Instead it makes use of "multi-sig" bitcoin transactions
  that require a third-party (it could be anyone the other two
  parties agree on) to sign off on transactions, to prevent fraud.
  And it offers a rating system through which users can gauge the
  trustworthiness of others, in lieu of any official stamp of
  approval.

  As for removing illicit or illegal items on sale? It's very
  simple. They can't be removed.

  In short: It can't be shut down, and it can't be censored.

    
  
  Created by bitcoin developer Amir Taaki in 2014, the project was
  initially called DarkMarket, and explicitly positioned itself as
  a successor to Silk Road.  "in an arms race to equip the people with the tools
  needed for the next generation of digital black markets."

  It subsequently rebranded as OpenBazaar, and Taaki stepped aside
  to pursue other projects  principally Dark Wallet, a bitcoin
  money-laundering app.

  Then, Brian Hoffman  who had previously worked at the management
  consultancy Booz Allen Hamilton  took over, precipitating a
  change in rhetoric. "We're not the 'Super Silk
  Road,'"."We're
  trying to replace eBay in a better form ...We recognise
  that people may choose to use that technology in a way we see as
  distasteful, immoral, and illegal, but were giving them the
  option to engage in a kind of human interaction that doesnt
  exist right now."

  More than 100 developers have contributed to the project since
  its inception, and there's now a core team of five full-time
  employees and one contractor, who have  up until this point 
  been supported by donations from the bitcoin community.

    
  
  OpenBazaar is currently still in a beta stage, and solicits
  contributions from the community as both funds and code  the
  project is open source, after all. Hoffman told me that we should
  expect to see a more polished version released in a timeframe of
  "months."

  Speaking over the phone from his home in Fairfax, Virginia,
  Hoffman frames OpenBazaar as more like Etsy than anything else.
  After all, it's an online marketplace where anyone can list
  items, with a review system  but without any burdensome
  transaction fees.

  "I use Etsy is because thats what is primarily considered a
  market leader in what we know as peer to peer commerce online at
  the moment," he told me in a follow-up email. "I think the
  decentralised model where 'take rates' (the percentage cut the
  marketplace takes) are eliminated will force the incumbents to
  have to rethink their strategy for capturing profit from
  consumers. It will force them to have to think about new ways to
  provide value-added services rather than just raising fees on
  customers to make more money."

    
  
    
  
    
  
  Though still in its infancy, goods are already being sold through
  OpenBazaar. Hoffman brings up the honey he has bought, as well as
  a pen made from a bullet  one of his first purchases on the
  platform.

  He says there has, as yet, been no problem with illegal goods
  being traded on the platform. But the 32-year-old computer
  science major is also realistic about the fact that there almost
  certainly will be, given time.

  For now, OpenBazaar is trying to "curb blatant misuse," namely by
  not yet directly integrating support for anonymising software
  Tor. That's not to say users couldn't mask their identity before
  booting up the platform, however.

  Hoffman is also careful to define OpenBazaar as a protocol,
  rather than a product  a distinction essential for keeping his
  hands clean of any potentially illegal activity carried out using
  the software. While the owner of a file-sharing site is
  responsible for any illegal content on it, the creator of the
  decentralised BitTorrent file-sharing protocol isn't criminally
  liable if it is used for illegal activity. They have no control
  over it  it's just a piece of code  and the same is true of
  OpenBazaar.

  One wonders, however, if this distinction will be lost on the
  authorities. , despite the urgings of security experts
  and tech companies, claiming that secure messaging aids
  terrorists and paedophiles. An online market that has the
  capacity to be used by drug dealers, criminals, and even
  terrorists to evade capture is guaranteed to come under very
  heavy scrutiny.

  Andreessen Horowitz and Union Square Ventures are two of tech's
  most-respected venture capital firms, and they're getting into
  bed with a project whose lead developer readily acknowledges may
  be used to distribute possibly illegal material.

    
  
  Hoffman says he wasn't actively seeking venture capital
  investment, and their investment came almost "by accident," after
  being introduced by a mutual connection.

  Chris Dixon leads the investment for Andreessen Horowitz, and
  managing partner Brad Burnham does the same for Union Square
  Ventures. Both are investing $500,000 in this seed round, and are
  joined by angel investor and board member William Mougaywar, who
  is investing $10,000. Neither Burnham nor Dixon are joining the
  board, which Hoffman concedes is likely because of the
  controversy the project has the potential to ignite. But he hopes
  the investment from two such high-profile firms will help to
  "legitimise development of the protocol."

  While OpenBazaar is a non-profit project, the funds are being
  used to create OB1, a for-profit company that will build
  revenue-generating value-added services  such as shopfronts or
  escrow services  on top of the OpenBazaar protocol layer.

  Burnham told me in an emailed statement that "OB1 will, of
  course, never knowingly offer its value added services to anyone
  using the OpenBazaar protocol to engage in illegal or morally
  questionable activities."

    
  
  But, he goes on, "the harder question is how to support the
  development of an open protocol, one that OB1 does not control,
  without encouraging, or endorsing, or even facilitating the
  misuse of that protocol. This calculus is further complicated by
  the fact that many contributors to the open source project are
  likely motivated by a mistrust of political or economic power. We
  do not have an easy answer. It would be disingenuous for us to
  say the OB1 team has no influence over the open source project.
  They are respected code contributors and are likely to encourage
  the development of the protocol through their own work and will
  now be in a position to offer bounties to encourage the
  development of specific features. But there is no design
  principle that we can encourage, that would eliminate the
  possibility of misuse, without undermining the value inherent in
  a free and open marketplace, so the best we can do is
  aggressively advocate for the responsible use of the OpenBazaar
  protocol, be open and transparent ourselves, and be an example
  for others. "

  Chris Dixon did not respond to a request for comment.

  OpenBazaar, if it proves successful, is an obvious competitor to
  the likes of Etsy and eBay. But Hoffman suggests that rather than
  disrupting established businesses, companies could potentially
  implement the OpenBazaar protocol into their own services. "Our
  hope is [other businesses]dont view it as a competitor but
  as a technology to embrace and integrate within their existing
  platforms how they see fit. As OB1 we will attempt to work with
  those interested to discuss how thats feasible as well."

  But it's an open question whether public companies worth billions
  of dollars would want to be associated with a technology like
  OpenBazaar. And similarly, it's up for debate whether normal
  consumers will want to use the network  knowing that, by doing
  so, they are helping keep online a market that could sell immoral
  contraband. Hoffman suggests that potentially objectionable
  content could be hidden from users unless they actively hunt for
  it. But whether "out of sight, out of mind" is enough remains to
  be seen.
, Hoffman suggested
  that if OpenBazaar became overrun with illicit or immoral
  materials, he would "be willing to walk away from it." I asked
  him if he still held by that. "Yes, absolutely."
