As the block size debate rages on, here's a primer on its broad strokesand why it matters.With all these factors in the mix, bitcoin is estimated to reach its so-called capacity cliff  where all blocks on the network are full  sometime .Some fear that a backlog of transactions awaiting inclusion in a future blocks will clog up the bitcoin network should blocks become consistently full.In this scenario, bitcoin nodes, which formthe collective 'backbone' that relays transactions across the network, will be overloaded with data and some transactions could be severely delayed or even rejected altogether.For anyone using a small amount bitcoin to pay for a day-to-day purchase like a cup of coffee, this would mean a long, awkward wait at the counter  and a lukewarmlatte.Coin Wallet, an wallet company that previously flooded the network with many tiny transactions, in one of many recent bitcoin 'stress tests', is planning  in September.If all goes to plan, it says the backlog of 0.00001 BTC transactions may take 30 days to clear, rendering other wallet software "worthless".That's the thinking behind Gavin Andresen's BIP101 'bigger blocks' proposal, firstpitched  and The former lead developer and current chief scientist for the Bitcoin Foundation is proposing raising the limit to 8MB, which will increase an additional 40% every two years  to accommodate future growth in CPU power, storage and bandwidth.Originally, Andresen had sought a20MB hard limit, however many Chinese miners, who now account for  of the network's hashing power, over such a drastic step change due to the country's .Other proposals have been put to the Bitcoin Core team in the typical channels, for examplePieter Wuille's annual  increase and Jeff Garzik's 2MB . However, these proposals, like others, have notachieved broadsupport among BitcoinCore developers and the debate, as a result, continues.Bitcoin XT takes the debate one step further by attempting to supplant Bitcoin Core as the network's chief client. Developers Mike Hearn and Gavin Andresen seek to persuade node operators and miners to support the client.According to , as of the time of this writing,868 nodes support the bigger blocks of XT, and three of the past 1,000 blocks were mined with support for Andresen's BIP-101.Due to the way bitcoin is currently governed, change cannot happen if anagreement cannot be reached. There is no 'benevolent dictator' in Core that can override the rest of the team. For better or worse, consensus is king.Besides Andresen, Hearn and a few other Core developers  who, tangentially, disagree with the methods of XT  bigger blocks in general have received support from a number of large bitcoin service providers.Pretty much all of bitcoin's wallets are on board, including Coinbase, Blockchain.info and Xapo, with the exception of CoinKite and GreenAddress. For them, the continued cheap use of the blockchain is a necessity.Exchanges outside of China have been rather quiet on the subject, while those inside the country, like the mining pools, have publicly backed a 8MB increase.When Genesis Mining  a large pool with farms across Asia, Europe, and the US  took a poll of its users in June, that an increase was a "good idea".However, the question of whether miners and pools will support that increase in the form of XT, a fork of Bitcoin Core, remains. It currently has of bitcoin's nodes behind it.In an interview in June, China's three largest pools F2Pool, BTCChina Pool and Huobi Pool  indicated they would not switch to XT, but rather strive for consensus. They present  of the current hash rate.Not quite. As developer Peter Todd , blockchains  owing to their design do not scale. Even Andresen, the mastermind behind the 'bigger blocks' proposal as well as a driving force behind Bitcoin XT, concedesthat raising the block size limit is akin to "".Others have expressed concern that raising the block size limit will mean fewer full nodes due to the increased data storage costs involved, which could dissuade users to operatefull nodes andcentralizethe system around entities capable of handing bigger blocks. This, some opponents of bigger blocks say, wouldgo against bitcoin's distributed, censorship-resistant nature.IBM UK's Richard Gendal Brown has way of thinking, in part, to the security engineering mindset  "how can I break this?"  a fear of technical failure that would put this decision off. On the flip side, those who see the larger problem as a more immediate danger are driven by a fear of practical failure that will drive away users.Those behind the block size increase see it as an immediate 'patch'  imperfect, but necessary. Those who are against it see it an increase as just one option of many that should not be rushed into hastily.Put simply, if youre willing to pay more, you get to the top of the pile. This, the thinking goes, will also increaseminers' incentive to process transactions, which will benefit the health of the network.Peter Todd, one of the Core developers in support of this short-term solution,  it will giveWhat are these other solutions? Well, they include various mechanisms that push the many tiny transactions on the bitcoin network  such as those from gambling sites and faucets  'off-chain'. One, known as the , is a kind of 'hub and spoke' solution that lets two parties transact in private, thenput their databack on the blockchain at an agreed time.However, even this will require a soft fork of the protocol to get it running.Sidechains, spearheaded by  startup Blockstream, has been mentionedin the context of the scalability discussion. However, some of the team behindthe concept, which allow developers to experiment on separate chains 'pegged' to the bitcoin blockchain, say this isn't entirely accurate.Luke Jr, one of severalCoredevelopers involved with Blockstream, recently comment on :"Sidechains aren't about scaling, they're about improving bitcoin's functionality. Some of those features may be useful to improve scaling  for example, the softforks needed for Lightning  but sidechains themselves don't do it."As it has unfolded, the block size debate has touched on many pain points for the currency as it seeks to grow. Bitcoin is many things to many people  anarchists, speculators, entrepreneurs  which, until now, hasnt been much of a problem.However, as proposals and counterproposals emerge, the question of the currency's future remains. Will it compete with the likes of Visa as a cheap, fast payment channel? Or should it remain an ultra secure, premium  and scarce  store of value to which other services can be pegged?Though the bitcoin ecosystem is undergoing big changes, whether the underlying code itself is altered remains to be seen.: A previous version of this article quoted Peter Todd as saying that blockchains, owing to their newness, have not been proved to scale. The quote has since been corrected to say that blockchains are not designed to scale.